README.md, before:

# A React App Example

## Overview

Before we dive in and start working on specific parts of a React project, let's
take a look at a simple React app so we can understand it at a high level.

In this lesson, we will start with a basic React app, examine the default
directory structure and gain a better understanding of how these apps are built.


## Objectives

- See an example of a basic React app
- Gain an overview of how the files interact
- Practice writing your first React component

#### A Note For In-Browser IDE Users

In order to work on React apps, we create a temporary server in the terminal
that displays the app in your browser. This server will not work if you are
using the in-browser Learn IDE. If you are currently using the in-browser IDE,
you will need to begin using your computer's local environment. If you are using
a Mac, you can follow [these instructions][setup] for setting everything up
locally.

## Starting Up a React App

This lesson has all the necessary parts of a fully working React app. To check
the app out, fork and clone this lesson onto your computer, navigate into
directory, and run:

```sh
npm install
```

This will get and install all the required dependencies for React.

Next, we need to start up a server for the app to run on:

```sh
npm start
```

This will host the app and open a browser window to display it. If the browser
doesn't open, but the server started correctly, you can use the links that
appear in the terminal to access the app. They should look something like the
following:

```sh
Local:            http://localhost:3000/
On Your Network:  http://192.168.1.5:3000/
```

You can use the `Local` link to open the app in your own browser. The second is
for any _other_ computers on your network that you want to access your app from.

If everything has worked correctly, you should see a page with the exact time it
was loaded, along with a small amount of text and a GIF.

If we make any changes to our app while the server is running, it will 'hot
reload,' and update the app in the browser. If there are app breaking errors in
your code, the browser will display those errors instead.


## Reading `App.js`

Open `src/App.js` in a text editor. This file contains a section of code that
looks _very much_ like HTML:

```html
<div className="App">
  <header className="App-header">
    {moment().format('MMMM Do YYYY, h:mm:ss a')}
  </header>
  <p className="App-intro">
    In React apps, we write JSX - it looks like HTML, and uses a lot of HTML syntax.
    JSX lets us include JavaScript functions right along with the HTML, and also
    allows us to add in components, which are separate, self-contained chunks of JSX.
  </p>
  <ExampleComponent />
</div>
```

It also has some _JavaScript_ code in it, `moment().format('MMMM Do YYYY,
h:mm:ss a')`. As it turns out, this is actually _all_ JavaScript. This syntax is
called JSX. It lets us write code that looks nearly identical to HTML, but
allows us to mix in vanilla JavaScript and other neat things.

Reading through the JSX code, we've got one `div` that contains three child
elements, `<header>`, `<p>` and `<ExampleComponent />`. In your browser, _these_
are the elements being displayed! The `<header>` provides a timestamp of the
exact time the app was loaded. The `<p>` section includes the brief text on JSX.

The `ExampleComponent` contains the sunglasses GIF. In the `src` folder, take a
look at `ExampleComponent.js`. You'll see a file very similar to `App.js`,
containing `<img>` and `<p>` elements. 

By including `<ExampleComponent />` in `App.js`'s JSX, we are able to use the
contents of the components. If you copy and paste `<ExampleComponent />` so it
is listed two times in a row, _two_ GIFs will appear on the page. Try this now. 

What about the rest of `App.js`, though? Moving out from the middle, we see this
JSX code is the _return_ value of a function, `render()`. This function is
contained within a `class`:

```js
class App extends Component {
  render() {

    return (
      // JSX goes here!
    )
  }
}
```


We will go into greater depth on things like `extends Component`, but for now,
the key thing to understand is that all of the _visible content_ of our app is
contained within this App class.

We've already seen that it is possible to have multiple files that contain
visible content, (i.e. by using both `App` and `ExampleComponent`.
`ExampleComponent`, however, is used within `App`. `App` is at the top most
level, the _parent component_ of our React app content.

## Heads Up! 
`create-react-app` version 3.0.0 was released April 22, 2019. It
makes a small change that defines `App` slightly differently. When you run
`create-react-app` it may generate `class App extends Component` if you have
an old version, or `function App() {` if you have a newer version. Both are
fine. Don't be surprised if you see an `App` that looks like the code block
below.

If you ever find you need class component features (like `.state`) you can
change `App` from a function to a class and write out the class's `render()`
method.

```js
function App() {
  return (
    // JSX goes here!
  )
}
```

## Importing, Exporting, and the Component Chain

There are two other things in the `App.js` file we haven't touched on:

```js
import React, { Component } from 'react'
import moment from 'moment'
import ExampleComponent from './ExampleComponent'
import TestComponent from './TestComponent'

// class blah blah extends whatever render something etc...

export default App
```

`react` and `moment` are both npm packages, so what is happening here? `App.js`
is _pulling in_ specific content from these two packages! You can see in the App
class that `Component` and `moment` are both being used in the `render()`
method. They are being _imported_ from the `node_modules` folder.

The imports for `ExampleComponent` and `TestComponent` are slightly different.
In this case, `App.js` is importing files in the same directory, like
`./ExampleComponent`, which allows it to use `<ExampleComponent />` in the
`render()` method.

OK, then what is happening with `export`? By including the `export` line, we are
allowing _other_ files to _import_ this `App.js` file. If you take a look at one
of the other JS files, `index.js`, you can see that at the top of the file, it
is _importing_ `App.js` (the `.js` is not included, but still implied):

```js
import App from './App';
```

This structure of importing and exporting allows for files to 'chain' together.
`ExampleComponent.js` has an `export` statement as well (take the time to locate
it), and is imported into `App.js`. Additionally, `App.js` is imported into
`index.js`.

The `index.js` file doesn't have an export. It is the 'top' of this chain.
Inside `index.js` is some regular JavaScript, `document.getElementById('root')`.
Even though React is a modern, complex framework, it still relies on a regular
`index.html` file to load the JavaScript! The file can be found in the `public`
folder. Take a look at it and try identify how `public/index.html` is connected
to `src/index.js`


## Deliverables

There are three tests to pass in this lesson. They are all related to the
content within `App.js`.

1. Replace the contents of the `header` element so that, instead of a time, it just says 'Now'
2. Make sure to include `<ExampleComponent />` (if you have removed it)
3. Add in a _new_ component, `<TestComponent />`, just below `<ExampleComponent />`

You can open two terminal tabs to both run `npm start` _and_ test the lab using
`learn` or `npm test`.


## Conclusion

There is a lot still we haven't touched on, and we will go into greater depth on
how things work throughout the following lessons. Almost all of our work,
however, will be done within `App.js` and child components of it. This is where
all of our creative energy will be spent.

This file structure is used by Facebook, the creators of React, and is what
`create-react-app` automatically generates. Using this structure, a lot of
set-up is abstracted away. We do not need to deal with writing the HTML document
or connecting it with JavaScript, as it is always the boiler plate code with
`index.html`, `index.js`, and `App.js`.


## Resources

- [Mac OSX Environment Set Up][setup]

[setup]: https://help.learn.co/technical-support/local-environment/mac-osx-manual-environment-set-up

Commit message:

added info on default exports

README.md, after:

# A React App Example

## Overview

Before we dive in and start working on specific parts of a React project, let's
take a look at a simple React app so we can understand it at a high level.

In this lesson, we will start with a basic React app, examine the default
directory structure and gain a better understanding of how these apps are built.


## Objectives

- See an example of a basic React app
- Gain an overview of how the files interact
- Practice writing your first React component

#### A Note For In-Browser IDE Users

In order to work on React apps, we create a temporary server in the terminal
that displays the app in your browser. This server will not work if you are
using the in-browser Learn IDE. If you are currently using the in-browser IDE,
you will need to begin using your computer's local environment. If you are using
a Mac, you can follow [these instructions][setup] for setting everything up
locally.

## Starting Up a React App

This lesson has all the necessary parts of a fully working React app. To check
the app out, fork and clone this lesson onto your computer, navigate into
directory, and run:

```sh
npm install
```

This will get and install all the required dependencies for React.

Next, we need to start up a server for the app to run on:

```sh
npm start
```

This will host the app and open a browser window to display it. If the browser
doesn't open, but the server started correctly, you can use the links that
appear in the terminal to access the app. They should look something like the
following:

```sh
Local:            http://localhost:3000/
On Your Network:  http://192.168.1.5:3000/
```

You can use the `Local` link to open the app in your own browser. The second is
for any _other_ computers on your network that you want to access your app from.

If everything has worked correctly, you should see a page with the exact time it
was loaded, along with a small amount of text and a GIF.

If we make any changes to our app while the server is running, it will 'hot
reload,' and update the app in the browser. If there are app breaking errors in
your code, the browser will display those errors instead.


## Reading `App.js`

Open `src/App.js` in a text editor. This file contains a section of code that
looks _very much_ like HTML:

```html
<div className="App">
  <header className="App-header">
    {moment().format('MMMM Do YYYY, h:mm:ss a')}
  </header>
  <p className="App-intro">
    In React apps, we write JSX - it looks like HTML, and uses a lot of HTML syntax.
    JSX lets us include JavaScript functions right along with the HTML, and also
    allows us to add in components, which are separate, self-contained chunks of JSX.
  </p>
  <ExampleComponent />
</div>
```

It also has some _JavaScript_ code in it, `moment().format('MMMM Do YYYY,
h:mm:ss a')`. As it turns out, this is actually _all_ JavaScript. This syntax is
called JSX. It lets us write code that looks nearly identical to HTML, but
allows us to mix in vanilla JavaScript and other neat things.

Reading through the JSX code, we've got one `div` that contains three child
elements, `<header>`, `<p>` and `<ExampleComponent />`. In your browser, _these_
are the elements being displayed! The `<header>` provides a timestamp of the
exact time the app was loaded. The `<p>` section includes the brief text on JSX.

The `ExampleComponent` contains the sunglasses GIF. In the `src` folder, take a
look at `ExampleComponent.js`. You'll see a file very similar to `App.js`,
containing `<img>` and `<p>` elements.

By including `<ExampleComponent />` in `App.js`'s JSX, we are able to use the
contents of the components. If you copy and paste `<ExampleComponent />` so it
is listed two times in a row, _two_ GIFs will appear on the page. Try this now.

What about the rest of `App.js`, though? Moving out from the middle, we see this
JSX code is the _return_ value of a function, `render()`. This function is
contained within a `class`:

```js
class App extends Component {
  render() {

    return (
      // JSX goes here!
    )
  }
}
```


We will go into greater depth on things like `extends Component`, but for now,
the key thing to understand is that all of the _visible content_ of our app is
contained within this App class.

We've already seen that it is possible to have multiple files that contain
visible content, (i.e. by using both `App` and `ExampleComponent`.
`ExampleComponent`, however, is used within `App`. `App` is at the top most
level, the _parent component_ of our React app content.

## Heads Up!
`create-react-app` version 3.0.0 was released April 22, 2019. It
makes a small change that defines `App` slightly differently. When you run
`create-react-app` it may generate `class App extends Component` if you have
an old version, or `function App() {` if you have a newer version. Both are
fine. Don't be surprised if you see an `App` that looks like the code block
below.

If you ever find you need class component features (like `.state`) you can
change `App` from a function to a class and write out the class's `render()`
method.

```js
function App() {
  return (
    // JSX goes here!
  )
}
```

## Importing, Exporting, and the Component Chain

There are two other things in the `App.js` file we haven't touched on:

```js
import React, { Component } from 'react'
import moment from 'moment'
import ExampleComponent from './ExampleComponent'
import TestComponent from './TestComponent'

// class blah blah extends whatever render something etc...

export default App
```

`react` and `moment` are both npm packages, so what is happening here? `App.js`
is _pulling in_ specific content from these two packages! You can see in the App
class that `Component` and `moment` are both being used in the `render()`
method. They are being _imported_ from the `node_modules` folder.

The imports for `ExampleComponent` and `TestComponent` are slightly different.
In this case, `App.js` is importing files in the same directory, like
`./ExampleComponent`, which allows it to use `<ExampleComponent />` in the
`render()` method.

OK, then what is happening with `export`? By including the `export` line, we are
allowing _other_ files to _import_ this `App.js` file. There are different types
of exports, like [named exports and default exports](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/web/javascript/reference/statements/export)

We will focus on default exports. The line, `export default App` denotes that
our App class is the main thing we want to export from our `App.js` file. You
can have only one default export per file. If you take a look at one of the
other JS files, `index.js`, you can see how we import the App class that at the
top of the file, it is _importing_ `App` from `App.js` (the `.js` is not
included, but still implied). This is the syntax to import something that is the
default export of another file:

```js
import App from './App';
```

This structure of importing and exporting allows for files to 'chain' together.
`ExampleComponent.js` has an `export` statement as well (take the time to locate
it), and is imported into `App.js`. Additionally, `App.js` is imported into
`index.js`.

The `index.js` file doesn't have an export. It is the 'top' of this chain.
Inside `index.js` is some regular JavaScript, `document.getElementById('root')`.
Even though React is a modern, complex framework, it still relies on a regular
`index.html` file to load the JavaScript! The file can be found in the `public`
folder. Take a look at it and try identify how `public/index.html` is connected
to `src/index.js`


## Deliverables

There are three tests to pass in this lesson. They are all related to the
content within `App.js`.

1. Replace the contents of the `header` element so that, instead of a time, it just says 'Now'
2. Make sure to include `<ExampleComponent />` (if you have removed it)
3. Add in a _new_ component, `<TestComponent />`, just below `<ExampleComponent />`

You can open two terminal tabs to both run `npm start` _and_ test the lab using
`learn` or `npm test`.


## Conclusion

There is a lot still we haven't touched on, and we will go into greater depth on
how things work throughout the following lessons. Almost all of our work,
however, will be done within `App.js` and child components of it. This is where
all of our creative energy will be spent.

This file structure is used by Facebook, the creators of React, and is what
`create-react-app` automatically generates. Using this structure, a lot of
set-up is abstracted away. We do not need to deal with writing the HTML document
or connecting it with JavaScript, as it is always the boiler plate code with
`index.html`, `index.js`, and `App.js`.


## Resources

- [Mac OSX Environment Set Up][setup]

[setup]: https://help.learn.co/technical-support/local-environment/mac-osx-manual-environment-set-up
